# Mid Project Check-In
## Kiki Chandra and Pratool Gadtaula

Our goals for the mid-project check-in were to have a solid start on figuring out D3 visualizations, and have collected all of our data. We also planned to have gotten to the point where we could plan out our article or potentially begin writing it. 

After talking to Paul, we decided to scale back on the discussion and conclusion of our data analysis and avoid having to prove that the statistic on Muslim immigrants committing crime in Sweden was entirely false. Instead we will provide context on why there seems to be inflated data and other statistics that are often overlooked when sensationalizing controversial topics.

One of our goals for this check-in was to have scaffolded the article we plan to write for our final deliverable. However, after discussion we decided that it would make more sense to focus on using the data we managed to collect to create significant plots, and frame the story around them once they are more finalized. 

During the first week of the project, we did a lot of background reading to get a better sense of what statistics were available for us to use. We found that many of the statistics we were looking for, such as breakdowns of immigration by country to specific regions, and crime statistics by country of origin, were no longer reported by the Swedish government. Thus, we decided to focus on an earlier time period, the mid-2000s, rather than looking at current-day data. We gathered most of the data we thought are most relevant to the project, including overrepresentation of foreigners in crime statistics, breakdowns of immigration by country, and types of crimes committed by groups of different backgrounds. In this step of the project we met with some difficulty, because most of the tables and reports we found were in Swedish, so it took a bit longer than expected. We did manage to generate some plots, including interactive ones, that demonstrate some of the context that we would like the outstanding statistics to be seen with. These are available in our ipython notebooks and the html file named “immigration.html”. Rather than directly using D3, some of our plots are statically generated by Matplotlib and Seaborn, and our other interactive plots are generated using the Python library Plotly, which interfaces with Pandas very easily. 

By next Friday, we will have generated all of our visualizations and have embedded them into some kind of web document (that may be HTML or markdown or some other easy-to-use format). This web document will contain analysis and a brief explanation on each of our visualizations. Some of these textual components may be sparse. The MVP that we will have created will closely resemble the article that we would like to be able to easily distribute online.


